Nova documentação de Notificações (feature/new-notifications) (#2426)
mercadopago/devsite-docs: guides/additional-content/your-integrations/webhooks.en.md

# Webhooks

Webhooks (also known as web callbacks) are a simple method that allows an application or system to provide real-time information whenever an event occurs. It's a passive way of receiving data between two systems via an `HTTP POST` request.

Webhooks notifications can be configured for each application created in [Your integrations](/developers/panel/app). You can also configure a test URL that, along with your test credentials, allows you to test the correct operation of your notifications before going live.

Once configured, the Webhook will be sent whenever one or more registered events occur, eliminating the need for constant checks and thus preventing system overload and data loss in critical situations.

To configure your Webhooks notifications, choose one of the options below:

| Configuration type | Description |
|---|---|

> | [Configuration through Your integrations](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_through_your_integrations) | Allows configuring notifications for various topics, identifying different accounts if necessary, and validating the notification origin using the secret signature (except notifications for QR Code integrations). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Configuration through Your integrations](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_through_your_integrations) | Allows configuring notifications for each one of your applications, identifying different accounts if necessary, and validating the notification origin using the secret signature (except notifications for QR Code integrations). |
```

> | [Configuration through Your integrations](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_through_your_integrations) | Allows configuring notifications for each one of your applications, identifying different accounts if necessary, and validating the notification origin using the secret signature (except notifications for QR Code integrations). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Configuration through Your integrations](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_through_your_integrations) | Allows configuring notifications for each one of your applications, identifying different accounts if necessary, and validating the notification origin using the secret signature ----[mla, mlb, mlu, mlc]----(except notifications for QR Code integrations)------------. |
```

> | [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment. This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Delivery integrations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment. This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Mercado Pago Delivery integrations. |
```

> | [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment. This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Mercado Pago Delivery integrations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment, preference or order. This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Mercado Pago Delivery integrations. |
```

> | [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment, preference or order. This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Mercado Pago Delivery integrations. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) | Allows specific configuration of notifications for each payment, preference or order ----[mla]----This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point or Mercado Pago Delivery integrations----------------[mlb, mlm]----This configuration is not allowed for Mercado Pago Point------------. |
```

> WARNING
>
> Important
>
> The URLs configured during payment creation will take precedence over those configured through Your integrations.

Once notifications are configured, refer to the necessary [actions after receiving a notification](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_necessary_actions_after_receiving_a_notification) to validate that the notifications were properly received.

## Configuration through Your integrations

> Efficiently and securely configure notifications for each application directly in [Your integrations](/developers/panel/app). In this documentation, we will explain how to: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up notifications for each application directly in [Your integrations](/developers/panel/app) efficiently and securely. In this documentation, we will explain how to: 
```

1. Specify URLs and configure events
2. Validate the notification source
3. Simulate receiving the notification

> WARNING
>
> Important
>

> > This configuration method is not available for QR Code or Subscriptions integrations. To set up notifications for either of these integrations, use the [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This configuration method is not available for ----[mla, mlb, mlu, mlc]----QR Code or------------ Subscriptions integrations. To set up notifications for either of these integrations, use the [Configuration during payment creation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#bookmark_configuration_during_payment_creation) method.
```

To do this, follow these steps:

1. Access [Your integrations](/developers/panel/app) and select the application for which you want to enable notifications. If you haven't created an application yet, access the [Developer Dashboard documentation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/dashboard) and follow the instructions to do so.
2. In the left menu, click on **Webhooks > Configure notifications** and configure the URLs that will be used to receive notifications. We recommend using different URLs for testing mode and production mode:
    * **Test mode URL:** provide a URL that allows testing the correct operation of notifications for this application during the testing or development phase. Testing these notifications should be done exclusively with the **test credentials of productive users**.
    * **Production mode URL:** provide a URL to receive notifications with your productive integration. These notifications should be configured with **productive credentials**.

![webhooks](/images/dashboard/webhooks-es.png)

> NOTE
>
> Note
> 

> > If it is necessary to identify multiple accounts, you can add the parameter `?cliente=(sellersname) endpoint` to the endpoint URL to identify the sellers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you need to identify multiple accounts, you can add the parameter `?cliente=(sellersname) endpoint` to the endpoint URL to identify the sellers.
```

> > If you need to identify multiple accounts, you can add the parameter `?cliente=(sellersname) endpoint` to the endpoint URL to identify the sellers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you need to identify multiple accounts, you can add the parameter `?cliente=(sellersname)` to the endpoint URL to identify the sellers.
```

3. Select the **events** from which you want to receive notifications in `JSON` format via an `HTTP POST` to the URL specified earlier. An event can be any type of update on the reported object, including status changes or attributes. Refer to the table below to see the events that can be configured, considering the integrated Mercado Pago solution and its business specifics.

| Events | Name in Your Integrations | Topic | Associated products |
|---|---|---|---|

> | Creation and update of payments | Payments | `payment` | Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Pro<br>Checkout Bricks<br>Subscriptions<br>----[mla, mlm, mlb]----MP Point------------<br>Wallet Connect |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Creation and update of payments | Payments | `payment` | Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Pro<br>Checkout Bricks<br>Subscriptions<br>----[mla, mlm, mlb]----Mercado Pago Point------------<br>Wallet Connect |
```

| Recurring payment of a subscription (creation - update) | Plans and Subscriptions | `subscription_authorized_payment` | Subscriptions |
| Subscription linking (creation - update) | Plans and Subscriptions | `subscription_preapproval` | Subscriptions |
| Subscription plan linking (creation - update) | Plans and Subscriptions | `subscription_preapproval_plan` | Subscriptions |

> | Linking and unlinking of mp-connect accounts | Application linking | `mp-connect` | All products that have implemented OAuth |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Linking and unlinking of accounts connected via OAuth | Application linking | `mp-connect` | All products that have implemented OAuth |
```

----[mla, mlm, mlb]----| Completion and cancellation of payment attempt, or error processing payment attempt from Mercado Pago Point devices. | Point Integrations | `point_integration_wh` | Mercado Pago Point |------------
| Wallet Connect transactions | Wallet Connect | `wallet_connect` | Wallet Connect |
| Fraud alerts after order processing | Fraud alerts | `stop_delivery_op_wh` | Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Pro |

> | Creation of refunds and claims | Claims | `topic_claims_integration_wh` | Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Pro<br>Checkout Bricks<br>Subscriptions<br>----[mla, mlm, mlb]----MP Point------------<br>QR Code<br>Wallet Connect |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Creation of refunds and claims | Claims | `topic_claims_integration_wh` | Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Pro<br>Checkout Bricks<br>Subscriptions<br>----[mla, mlm, mlb]----Mercado Pago Point------------<br>QR Code<br>Wallet Connect |
```

| Opening of chargebacks, status changes, and modifications related to the release of funds | Chargebacks | `topic_chargebacks_wh` | Checkout Pro<br>Checkout ----[mlb]----Transparente ----------------[mla, mlu, mlc, mlm, mco, mpe]----API------------<br>Checkout Bricks |
----[mla]----| Creation, update, or cancellation of orders. | Delivery (proximity marketplace) | `delivery` | MP Delivery |------------

> WARNING
>
> Important
>
> If you have any questions about the topics to de activated or the events that will be notified, check the [Additional information about Notifications documentation](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/additional-info). 

5. Finally, click on **Save**. This will generate a unique **secret signature** for your application, allowing you to validate the authenticity of received notifications, ensuring they were sent by Mercado Pago. Note that the generated signature does not have an expiration date, and its periodic renewal is not mandatory but highly recommended. Simply click the **Reset** button next to the signature to renew it.

> > WARNING

Reviewer: ```suggestion

----[mla, mlb, mlu, mlc]----
> WARNING
```

> 
> Important
> 
> QR Code notifications cannot be verified using the secret signature. Therefore, you should proceed directly to the Simulate receiving notifications step. If you have a QR Code integration and still want to verify the origin of your notifications, please contact [Mercado Pago Support](https://www.mercadopago[FAKER][URL][DOMAIN]/developers/en/support/center).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
------------
```

```
]]]

### 3. Simulate receiving the notification

Simulating receiving notifications is necessary to verify if they are configured correctly. To do so, follow these steps:

1. After configuring the URLs and desired events, click **Save** to save the configuration.
2. Afterward, click **Simulate** to test if the specified URL is receiving notifications correctly.
3. On the simulation screen, select the URL to be tested, which can be a **test** or **production** URL.
4. Next, select the desired **event type** and enter the identification that will be sent in the body of the notification.
5. Finally, click **Send test** to verify the request, the server response, and the event description.

## Configuration during payment creation

> During the payment creation process, it's possible to configure the notification URL more specifically for each payment using the `notification_url` field and implementing the necessary notification receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the creation process of a payment, preference or order, it's possible to configure the notification URL more specifically for each payment using the `notification_url` field and implementing the necessary notification receiver.
```

> > WARNING

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----[mla]----
> WARNING
```

>
> Important
> 

> > It's not possible to configure notifications for the point_integration_wh and delivery topics using this method. To activate these topics, use the [Your integrations settings](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#yourintegrationssettings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It's not possible to configure notifications for the point_integration_wh and delivery topics using this method. To activate these topics, use the [Your integrations settings](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#yourintegrationssettings).
------------

----[mlb, mlm]----
> WARNING
>
> Important
>
> It's not possible to configure notifications for the point_integration_wh topic using this method. To activate it, use the [Your integrations settings](/developers/en/docs/your-integrations/notifications/webhooks#yourintegrationssettings).

------------

```

Next, we explain how to do this with the help of the SDKs.

> 1. In the `notification_url` field, specify the URL where notifications will be received, as shown in the example below. To receive notifications exclusively via Webhooks and not via IPN, you can add the parameter `source_news=webhooks` to the `notification_url`. For example: "https://www.yourserver.com/notifications?source_news=webhooks".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `notification_url` field, specify the URL where notifications will be received, as shown in the example below. To receive notifications exclusively via Webhooks and not via IPN, you can add the parameter `source_news=webhooks` to the `notification_url`. For example: `https://www.yourserver.com/notifications?source_news=webhooks`.
```

}
```

| Attribute | Description | Example in JSON |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **id** | Notification ID | `12345` |
| **live_mode** | Indicates if the URL provided is valid | `true` |
| **type** | Type of notification received according to the previously selected topic (payments, mp-connect, subscription, claim, automatic-payments, etc.) | `payment` |
| **date_created** | Date the notified resource was created | `2015-03-25T10:04:58.396-04:00` |
| **user_id**| Seller identifier | `44444` |
| **api_version** | Value indicating the API version sending the notification | `v1` |
| **action** | Notified event, indicating if it's a resource update or a new creation | `payment.created` |
| **data.id**  | ID of the payment, `merchant_order`, or claim | `999999999` |

> > WARNING

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----[mla]----
> WARNING
```
